README.md, before:

# Web Umenia

This is the repository of portal [www.webumenia.sk](http://www.webumenia.sk). 
The site is entirely open source and community involvement is encouraged.

## Requirements

This software is built with [Laravel5 framework](http://laravel.com/).

It requires
* PHP 5.5.9+
* MySQL
* Elasticsearch

## Local Installation

Here are the steps for installation on a local machine.

1. Clone this repository.
    ```
    git@github.com:SlovakNationalGallery/web-umenia-2.git webumenia/
    cd webumenia/
    ```
2. setup database in your favourite database editor. set:
    * db name
    * username
    * password
3. configure access to your database in `/app/config/database.php` 
4. set `.env` file. you can copy values from `.env.example`
5. Run `composer install` to fulfil required libraries. 
6. Make sure elasticsearch is running. you can set the index name in `app/config/app.php`
7. Run migrations to setup the database with `php artisan migrate --seed` 

### Harvesting Data

You can now fill artworks by adding them manually or importing using the "spice harvester" (harvests using OAI-PMH protocol) using `php artisan oai-pmh:harvest` and choosing to harvest `1 [item] Europeana SNG`. Or login to admin at `http://yourlocalhost/admin` using default credentials `admin`/`admin` and go to `Spice Harvester` -> 'Spustit'.

### IIPImage

This application uses [IIPImage server](http://iipimage.sourceforge.net/) for zoomable (and downloadable) images.

IIPImage must be seen localy, what can be achieved using a ProxyForwarding.

To enable image server for default oai set (Europeana), put this lines of code into your virtualhost setup:

```
ProxyPass /fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi http://imi.sng.cust.eea.sk/publicIS/fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi

ProxyPassReverse /fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi http://imi.sng.cust.eea.sk/publicIS/fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi
```

### Updating Elastic Search

* neccesary steps are specified in the file `ES2_migration_steps.txt`
* command to generate ES2 compatibile index:
`php artisan es:setup`
* command to reindex data to the index
`php artisan es:reindex`

## Maintainer

This project is maintained by [lab.SNG](http://lab.sng.sk). If you have any questions please don't hesitate to ask them by creating an issue or email us at [lab@sng.sk](mailto:lab@sng.sk).

## License

This is free software released into the [public domain](http://unlicense.org/). Please see [License File](LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

add welcome section to readme

README.md, after:

# Welcome

[Web Umenia](http://www.webumenia.sk) is an open platform to explore digitized art collections from public galleries and museums. 

Web Umenia is initiated by [lab.SNG](http://lab.sng.sk/): the digital R&D lab of the Slovak National Gallery. We are working with public art organisations to make their art accessible and explorable online so curious people around the world can learn more about works of art and the context they've been created in.

Web Umenia offers a user-friendly functionality to search and expore art from collections of multiple galleries and museums.

Public domain artworks are licenced under Creative Commons and can be freely downloaded at high resolution.

Art organisation with digitized artworks organised in a Collection Management System can easily publish their art via CSV imports. If you would like to know more about using Web Umenia in your organisation, contact us via [lab@sng.sk](mailto:lab@sng.sk)

Developers interested to build applications on top of Web Umenia can use our API. See our [wiki on GitHub](https://github.com/SlovakNationalGallery/web-umenia-2/wiki/ElasticSearch-Public-API) for more info.

# Tech setup

## Requirements

This software is built with [Laravel5 framework](http://laravel.com/).

It requires
* PHP 5.5.9+
* MySQL
* Elasticsearch

## Local Installation

Here are the steps for installation on a local machine.

1. Clone this repository.
    ```
    git@github.com:SlovakNationalGallery/web-umenia-2.git webumenia/
    cd webumenia/
    ```
2. setup database in your favourite database editor. set:
    * db name
    * username
    * password
3. configure access to your database in `/app/config/database.php` 
4. set `.env` file. you can copy values from `.env.example`
5. Run `composer install` to fulfil required libraries. 
6. Make sure elasticsearch is running. you can set the index name in `app/config/app.php`
7. Run migrations to setup the database with `php artisan migrate --seed` 

### Harvesting Data

You can now fill artworks by adding them manually or importing using the "spice harvester" (harvests using OAI-PMH protocol) using `php artisan oai-pmh:harvest` and choosing to harvest `1 [item] Europeana SNG`. Or login to admin at `http://yourlocalhost/admin` using default credentials `admin`/`admin` and go to `Spice Harvester` -> 'Spustit'.

### IIPImage

This application uses [IIPImage server](http://iipimage.sourceforge.net/) for zoomable (and downloadable) images.

IIPImage must be seen localy, what can be achieved using a ProxyForwarding.

To enable image server for default oai set (Europeana), put this lines of code into your virtualhost setup:

```
ProxyPass /fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi http://imi.sng.cust.eea.sk/publicIS/fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi

ProxyPassReverse /fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi http://imi.sng.cust.eea.sk/publicIS/fcgi-bin/iipsrv.fcgi
```

### Updating Elastic Search

* neccesary steps are specified in the file `ES2_migration_steps.txt`
* command to generate ES2 compatibile index:
`php artisan es:setup`
* command to reindex data to the index
`php artisan es:reindex`

## Maintainer

This project is maintained by [lab.SNG](http://lab.sng.sk). If you have any questions please don't hesitate to ask them by creating an issue or email us at [lab@sng.sk](mailto:lab@sng.sk).

## License

This is free software released into the [public domain](http://unlicense.org/). Please see [License File](LICENSE) for more information.
